

This a model from the article:  
**Sensitivity analysis of parameters controlling oscillatory signalling in the NF-kappaB pathway: the roles of IKK and IkappaBalpha.**   
Ihekwaba AE, Broomhead DS, Grimley RL, Benson N, Kell DB _Syst Biol
(Stevenage)_ [2004 Jun;1(1):93-103
[17052119](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17052119) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Analysis of cellular signalling interactions is expected to create an enormous
informatics challenge, perhaps even greater than that of analysing the genome.
A key step in the evolution towards a more quantitative understanding of
signalling is to specify explicitly the kinetics of all chemical reaction
steps in a pathway. We have reconstructed a model of the nuclear factor,
kappaB (NF-kappaB) signalling pathway, containing 64 parameters and 26
variables, including steps in which the activation of the NF-kappaB
transcription factor is intimately associated with the phosphorylation and
ubiquitination of its inhibitor kappaB by a membrane-associated kinase, and
its translocation from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. We apply sensitivity
analysis to the model. This identifies those parameters in this (IkappaB)/NF-
kappaB signalling system (containing only induced IkappaBalpha isoform) that
most affect the oscillatory concentration of nuclear NF-kappaB (in terms of
both period and amplitude). The intention is to provide guidance on which
proteins are likely to be most significant as drug targets or should be
exploited for further, more detailed experiments. The sensitivity coefficients
were found to be strongly dependent upon the magnitude of the parameter change
studied, indicating the highly non-linear nature of the system. Of the 64
parameters in the model, only eight to nine exerted a major control on nuclear
NF-kappaB oscillations, and each of these involved as reaction participants
either the IkappaB kinase (IKK) or IkappaBalpha, directly. This means that the
dominant dynamics of the pathway can be reflected, in addition to that of
nuclear NF-kappaB itself, by just two of the other pathway variables. This is
conveniently observed in a phase-plane plot.

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not.

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

